BOOK DESCRIPTION

Networks of many different kinds permeate our lives. From the friendship networks that provide us support and leisure to the transportation networks that let us buy groceries at the supermarket down the street, from the complex social networks that shape modern societies to the communication networks that let us send instantaneous messages across the globe, we are surrounded by networks. Networks play a central role in determining who we meet, which job opportunities we get, which products we buy, how fads catch on, and how diseases spread. Social relationships, economic transactions, web pages, man-made technology, and natural processes all weave networks around us.

Network structure shapes network dynamics and network behavior cannot be explained by individual network elements. Therefore, the analysis of network data is crucial for many different application domains. "Mining Network Data" focuses on the algorithms, models, and data mining techniques that enable the analysis of the structural and behavioral properties of complex networks.



CODES

CMS11 Computer Science & Engineering - Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery
CMS15 Computer Science & Engineering - Machine Learning and Pattern Recognition
CMS01 Computer Science & Engineering - Algorithms and Complexity



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Networks: Algorithms, Models, and Data Mining Techniques

0. Mining Network Data

Part I: Foundations
1. Graph Theory: The Mathematics of Networks
2. Programs = Algorithms + Data Structures

Part II: Algorithms
3. Graph Exploration
4. Minimum Spanning Trees
5. Shortest Paths
6. Network Flow
7. Graph Isomorphism
8. Hard Problems
9. A Catalog of Graph Algorithms

Part III: Network Structure
10. Network Connectivity
11. Network Motifs
12. Block Models: Positional and Role Analysis
13. Network Centrality

Part IV: Network Models
14. Regular Networks
15. Poisson Random Networks
16. The Configuration Model
17. Small-World Networks
18. Scale-Free Networks
19. Hierarchical/Modular Networks
20. Affiliation Networks

Part V: Data Mining Techniques
21. Visualization
22. Pattern Mining
23. Community Detection
24. Ranking
25. Link Prediction

Bibliography